Question 1 / 80 Who is responsible for estimating the Product Backlog items?
:​The Development Team.
Question 2 / 80 What is the purpose of the Sprint Review?
:​It is an opportunity for the Scrum Team and key stakeholders inspect the Increment produced in the Sprint and adapt the Product Backlog accordingly.
Question 3 / 80 Agility is the ability for organizations to respond to change rapidly.
:​TRUE
Question 4 / 80 Which of the following is the event most appropriate to inspect and possibly adapt the definition of “Done”?
:Sprint Retrospective
Question 5 / 80 Who assigns tasks to individual members of the Development Team?
:The members of the Development Team themselves.
Question 6 / 80 Who’s responsible for Gantt Charts in Scrum?
:​No one
Question 7 / 80 How much work is necessary to turn a Sprint Backlog item to done.
:​All the work needed to deliver a "Done" Increment.
Question 8 / 80 Burn-down charts are a mandatory practice for Scrum Teams.
:​FALSE
Question 9 / 80 What is the maximum amount of time permitted between the end of a Sprint and the beginning of the next one?
:​None. A new Sprint starts immediately following the conclusion of the previous Sprint.
Question 10 / 80 A Scrum Master observes problems in the collaboration of the Product Owner with the Development Team. What action is appropriate?
:​Coach the Product Owner.
Question 11 / 80 During the Sprint Planning, the Development Team commits to delivering the Product Backlog items in the Sprint Backlog.
!!​FALSE
Question 12 / 80 A new Product Owner is hired to work on an existing product that has ongoing for five Sprints. They are unsure about all of the responsibilities of a Product Owner. Which of these Product Owner activities are defined in Scrum?
:​Interacting with stakeholders and ensuring that the most valuable functionality is is always produced first.
Question 13 / 80 What is the responsibility of the Development Team during Sprint 1?
:Deliver a potentially shippable Increment.
Question 14 / 80 Which role in Scrum acts as a facilitator and coach?
:​Scrum Master
Question 15 / 80 What activities are performed by the Product Owner in-between Sprints?
:There is no time between Sprints.
Question 16 / 80 During the Sprint, the Development Team realizes it cannot deliver all items in the Sprint Backlog. Who is responsible for readjusting the scope of the Sprint Backlog?
:​The Development Team and the Product Owner
Question 17 / 80 Which of the following statements best describes iterative development?
:​It refers to using more than one product development cycle to develop the final project deliverables through the learning from the previous development cycles.
Question 18 / 80 What is the role of management towards the Scrum Team?
:​Give them the environment and support they need and trust them to get the job done.
Question 19 / 80 What happens to “Done” Product Backlog items when a Sprint is cancelled?
:​They will be reviewed, and if they are potentially releasable, the Product Owner typically accepts them.
Question 20 / 80 A Product Owner may transfer some of their accountabiliy to members of the Development Team.
:​FALSE
Question 21 / 80 Which of the following are common outcomes of Daily Scrums? (Choose two answers.)
:​Impediments have been identified for the Scrum Master to address.
:​The members of the Development Team are committed on the next steps towards the Sprint Goal.
Question 22 / 80 The Scrum Team gathers stakeholder feedback exclusively during the Sprint Review.
:​FALSE
Question 23 / 80 When multiple Scrum Teams work on the same product, they pull work from the same Product Backlog.
:​TRUE
Question 24 / 80 When multiple teams work on the same product, who is responsible for the integration of work into one Increment?
:The Development Teams.
Question 25 / 80 Which of the following statements are NOT correct about time-boxing. (Choose two answers.)
:The ​Sprint Retrospective is time-boxed to 4 hours for a one month Sprint; Daily Scrum is time-boxed to 15 minutes; a Sprint is time-boxed to 1 to 6 weeks.
:The ​Sprint Review is time-boxed to 6 hours for a one month Sprint; the Sprint Retrospective is time-boxed to 8 hours for a one month Sprint; the Sprint Planning is time-boxed to 8 hours for a one week Sprint.
Question 26 / 80 Which of the following statement is NOT correct about Scrum?
:It deals only with static requirements.
Question 27 / 80 Which of the following describes a valid service from the Scrum Master to the Product Owner? (Choose the best answer.)
:​Helping the Product Owner find better techniques for Product Backlog management.
Question 28 / 80 Stakeholders should by default be invited to the Sprint Retrospective.
:​FALSE
Question 29 / 80 Product Backlog items may include test descriptions, which must be fulfilled for an item to be “Done”.
:​TRUE
Question 30 / 80 Which of the following statements are correct about un-“Done” items in the Sprint Backlog in the end of the Sprint? (Choose two answers.)
:​It won’t be demonstrated at the Sprint Review meeting
:​It will be moved back to the Product Backlog
Question 31 / 80 Which event does a Sprint begin with?
:​Sprint Planning
Question 32 / 80 What is the appropriate action for a Development Team to take, if it does not understand a functional requirement?
:​Work with the Product Owner to clarify the item and take decisions together.
Question 33 / 80 What activities are performed by the Product Owner during Sprint 0?
:​There is no such thing as Sprint zero.
Question 34 / 80 The Product Owner and Scrum Master may not be part of the Development Team.
:​FALSE
Question 35 / 80 An increase in velocity is equal to an increase in value delivered.
!!​FALSE
Question 36 / 80 The Sprint Planning provides multiple outputs. Which of the following in an output that provides the Development Team with a direction for the Sprint?
:​The Sprint Goal
Question 37 / 80 Which of the following statements are correct about the Sprint Retrospective? (Choose two answers.)
:​It’s at most three hours long for a one-month Sprint, for shorter Sprints this is usually less.
Question 38 / 80 Which of the following describes the activities of a Product Owner during Sprint 0?
:In Scrum, there is no Sprint 0.
Question 39 / 80 Which two statements are correct during the Sprint?
:​The scope may be re-negotiated as more is learned.
!!​The scope may be clarified as more is learned.
Question 40 / 80 Who is responsible for updating the Sprint Backlog?
:​The Development Team
Question 41 / 80 The Product Owner is using burn-up charts instead of burn-down charts. What would be your response as the Scrum Master?
:​There’s nothing wrong with it.
Question 42 / 80 The Product Owner doesn’t spend enough time on the project. Which of the following options is the best thing for the Scrum Master to do about this?
:​Coach the Product Owner why it’s important for them to spend enough time on the project
Question 43 / 80 Which of the following is the most appropriate statement about what cross-functionality in a Development Team means?
:​Deliver a potentially shippable, "Done" product Increment.
Question Deliver a testable pre-Increment that can be handed over to the QA/Testing department.
Question 44 / 80 When multiple Scrum Teams work on the same product, each team should have a separate Product Owner.
:​FALSE
Question 45 / 80 Which of the following is not a role recognized by Scrum?
:​Project manager
Question 46 / 80 What does the trendline in a release burndown chart indicate?
:​When the remaining work for the release is projected to be completed if there are no significant changes.
Question 47 / 80 Who is responsible for the proper understanding of Product Backlog items?
:​The Product Owner.
Question 48 / 80 How do changes in the end users’ environments affect the Product Backlog?
:​It evolves to reflect the changes.
Question 49 / 80 A self-organizing Development Team is free to not hold Daily Scrums.
:​FALSE
Question 50 / 80 Which of the following two statements are accurate about technical debt? (Choose two answers.)
:​It creates false assumptions about the current state of the system, lowering transparency.
:Having technical debt introduces additional risk to the product.
Question 51 / 80 What type of process control is at the basis of Scrum?
:​Empirical
Question 52 / 80 What is the Scrum Master’s responsibility during a Sprint Retrospective?
:​Participating as a member of the Scrum Team and facilitating as requested or needed.
Question 53 / 80 When a project is riskier, Sprints should be longer.
:​FALSE
Question 54 / 80 Which of the following statements does NOT describe an advantage provided by using Scrum?
!!​It ensures that all the benefits are delivered at the end of the project.
Question 55 / 80 A Product Owner is concerned about the quality level provided by the Development Team’s definition of “Done”. What is the best approach for the Product Owner to take?
:​Point it out in the next Sprint Retrospective and work with the Development Team towards a shared understanding of quality.
Question 56 / 80 Which of the following topics should be addressed in the Sprint Retrospective?
:All provided answers are correct.
Question 57 / 80 How are architecture and infrastructure handled in Scrum?
:​They are added to the Product Backlog and implemented along with functional development.
Question 58 / 80 What event triggers the beginning of a new Sprint?
:The expiration of the time-box of the previous Sprint.
Question 59 / 80 Scrum suggests that the Product Backlog refinement should not take more than 10% of the Product Owner’s time.
:​FALSE
Question 60 / 80 Which statement is correct about five Scrum Teams working on one product?
:​The product has one Product Backlog and one Product Owner.
Question 61 / 80 Only the Scrum Team may attend the Sprint Planning.
!!​FALSE
Question 62 / 80 Which of the following statements is most appropriate regarding how often membership in the Development Team should change?
:Whenever needed, taking into account a temporary decrease in productivity.
Question 63 / 80 Which of the following is the correct time-box for the Sprint Planning of a two week Sprint?
:8 hours
Question 64 / 80 Which of the following is the least appropriate behavior of a Scrum Master?
:Act as a communication-proxy between Product Owner and Development Team.
Question 65 / 80 Which of the following artifacts contains a plan for realizing the Sprint Goal?
:​Sprint Backlog
Question 66 / 80 When multiple Scrum teams are working on the same product, they are responsible for delivering one integrated, “Done” Increment.
:​TRUE
Question 67 / 80 Which of the following is the correct time-box for the Sprint Review?
:​4 hours for a one month Sprint.
Question 68 / 80 The purpose of the Daily Scrum is for the Development Team to provide an update to the Product Owner.
:​FALSE
Question 69 / 80 Which of the following statements is true regarding the duration of a Sprint?
!!​No more than one month.
!!​Short enough to be able to synchronize the development work with other business events.
!!​Short enough to keep the business risk acceptable to the Product Owner.
!!​All of these answers are correct.
Question 70 / 80 What it the appropriate action for a Development Team to take if it realizes it has selected too much during the Sprint?
:​Work with the Product Owner to renegotiate the scope as soon as possible.
Question 71 / 80 Which of the following statements is true about transparency?
!!​Significant aspects of the process must be visible to those responsible for the outcome.
Question 72 / 80 Which of the following is not a responsibility of members of the Development Team?
:​Breaking down the epics in the Product Backlog into stories
Question 73 / 80 What part does the Product Owner play in the creation of the Sprint Goal?
!!The Product Owner provides the business objective for the Sprint and an ordered Product backlog. ​The Product Owner and the Development Team collaborate to form the Sprint Goal. 
Question 74 / 80 A new Sprint starts immediately after the previous Sprint.
:​TRUE
Question 75 / 80 During the Sprint Planning, the Scrum Team discovers that the Product Backlog is not properly refined. What is the time-box for the Sprint Planning is such a case?
:​8 hours
Question 76 / 80 Which of the following is not time-boxed according to the Scrum Guide?
:Product Backlog refinement
Question 77 / 80 What does the vertical axis of a burn-down chart represent?
:​The amount of remaining work
Question 78 / 80 The self-organization of the Development Team includes the possiblility to remove Scrum Events from their Sprints.
:​FALSE
Question 79 / 80 The Product Owner is responsible for the definition of “Done”.
:​FALSE
Question 80 / 80 Which of the following descibes the optimal length of a Sprint?
:​Short enough to minimize risk, long enough to deliver at least one piece of improved outcome.
