CONGRATULATIONS!
You passed the quiz!

Your score is 88%

Question 1 / 80 Who is responsible for estimating the Product Backlog items?

:​The Development Team.
​The Scrum Master.
​The Technical Architect.
​The Product Owner.

Question 2 / 80 What is the purpose of the Sprint Review?

​It is an activity for the Development Team to demonstrate their work to the Product Owner.
:​It is an opportunity for the Scrum Team and key stakeholders inspect the Increment produced in the Sprint and adapt the Product Backlog accordingly.
​It provides an opportunity for the Development Team to find ways to incrementally improve their velocity.

Question 3 / 80 Agility is the ability for organizations to respond to change rapidly.

​FALSE
:​TRUE

Question 4 / 80 Which of the following is the event most appropriate to inspect and possibly adapt the definition of “Done”?

Daily Scrum
:Sprint Retrospective
Sprint Planning
Between two Sprints

Question 5 / 80 Who assigns tasks to individual members of the Development Team?

​The Product Owner.
​The Scrum Master.
:The members of the Development Team themselves.
​The project manager.

Question 6 / 80 Who’s responsible for Gantt Charts in Scrum?

​The project manager
​The Development Team
​The Scrum Master
:​No one

Question 7 / 80 How much work is necessary to turn a Sprint Backlog item to done.

At least requirement gathering, design, implementation, and testing.
:​All the work needed to deliver a "Done" Increment.
​All the work that has been defined during Sprint Planning.

Question 8 / 80 Burn-down charts are a mandatory practice for Scrum Teams.

​TRUE
:​FALSE

Question 9 / 80 What is the maximum amount of time permitted between the end of a Sprint and the beginning of the next one?

​Enough time for the Product Owner to prepare the Product Backlog for Sprint Planning.
​Maximum of 1 day for Sprints that are time-boxed to 2 weeks.
​Enough time for the last Increment to finish testing.
:​None. A new Sprint starts immediately following the conclusion of the previous Sprint.
All provided answers are correct.

Question 10 / 80 A Scrum Master observes problems in the collaboration of the Product Owner with the Development Team. What action is appropriate?

​Nominate a proxy Product Owner.
:​Coach the Product Owner.
​Act as the go-between between Product Owner and Development Team.

Question 11 / 80 During the Sprint Planning, the Development Team commits to delivering the Product Backlog items in the Sprint Backlog.

!!​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 12 / 80 A new Product Owner is hired to work on an existing product that has ongoing for five Sprints. They are unsure about all of the responsibilities of a Product Owner. Which of these Product Owner activities are defined in Scrum?

:​Interacting with stakeholders and ensuring that the most valuable functionality is is always produced first.
​Ensuring work is completed within scope and time.
​Writing User Stories.
​Describing features as Use Cases.

Question 13 / 80 What is the responsibility of the Development Team during Sprint 1?

:Deliver a potentially shippable Increment.
Define the architecture of the project.
Create a roadmap for the upcoming Sprints.

Question 14 / 80 Which role in Scrum acts as a facilitator and coach?

​Scrum Team
​Team Leader
:​Scrum Master
​Product Owner

Question 15 / 80 What activities are performed by the Product Owner in-between Sprints?

:There is no time between Sprints.
​Product Backlog refinement.
​Participate as a team member at the Sprint Retrospective.
​Updating stakeholders on project progress.

Question 16 / 80 During the Sprint, the Development Team realizes it cannot deliver all items in the Sprint Backlog. Who is responsible for readjusting the scope of the Sprint Backlog?

​The Scrum Master
​The Product Owner
​The Development Team
:​The Development Team and the Product Owner
​The Scrum Team

Question 17 / 80 Which of the following statements best describes iterative development?

:​It refers to using more than one product development cycle to develop the final project deliverables through the learning from the previous development cycles.
​It refers to developing project outputs through detailed upfront planning with emphasis on fixing scope, quality and other project aspects.
​It refers to developing the final project deliverables in one product development cycle.
​It refers to developing project deliverables using automated processes.

Question 18 / 80 What is the role of management towards the Scrum Team?

​Decide how to divide the Development Team when it exceeds the Scrum limit.
:​Give them the environment and support they need and trust them to get the job done.
​Track individual performance in order to maintain a high performance team structure.
​Assign tasks to individual members when urgent requests are received.

Question 19 / 80 What happens to “Done” Product Backlog items when a Sprint is cancelled?

​They should be moved to the next Sprint Backlog.
:​They will be reviewed, and if they are potentially releasable, the Product Owner typically accepts them.
​They should be moved back to the Product Backlog, and would be taken care of in the future Sprints

Question 20 / 80 A Product Owner may transfer some of their accountabiliy to members of the Development Team.

:​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 21 / 80 Which of the following are common outcomes of Daily Scrums? (Choose two answers.)

:​Impediments have been identified for the Scrum Master to address.
​The Product Owner is updated about the progress.
:​The members of the Development Team are committed on the next steps towards the Sprint Goal.

Question 22 / 80 The Scrum Team gathers stakeholder feedback exclusively during the Sprint Review.

:​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 23 / 80 When multiple Scrum Teams work on the same product, they pull work from the same Product Backlog.

​FALSE
:​TRUE

Question 24 / 80 When multiple teams work on the same product, who is responsible for the integration of work into one Increment?

:The Development Teams.
​The Product Owner
​The Scrum Master
The Integration Engineers.

Question 25 / 80 Which of the following statements are NOT correct about time-boxing. (Choose two answers.)

​The Daily Scrum is time-boxed to 15 minutes; the Sprint Review is time-boxed to 4 hours for a one month Sprint; a Sprint is time-boxed to one month.
:The ​Sprint Retrospective is time-boxed to 4 hours for a one month Sprint; Daily Scrum is time-boxed to 15 minutes; a Sprint is time-boxed to 1 to 6 weeks.
​A Sprint is time-boxed to a maximum of one month; Sprint Planning is time-boxed to 8 hours for a one month Sprint; the Daily Scrum is time-boxed to 15 minutes.
:The ​Sprint Review is time-boxed to 6 hours for a one month Sprint; the Sprint Retrospective is time-boxed to 8 hours for a one month Sprint; the Sprint Planning is time-boxed to 8 hours for a one week Sprint.

Question 26 / 80 Which of the following statement is NOT correct about Scrum?

It is difficult to master.
It is based on empiricism.
:It deals only with static requirements.
​It is a framework used to address complex products.

Question 27 / 80 Which of the following describes a valid service from the Scrum Master to the Product Owner? (Choose the best answer.)

​Act as a proxy when the Product Owner is not available to the team.
:​Helping the Product Owner find better techniques for Product Backlog management.
​Act as the middleman between the Product Owner and the Development Team, as requested or required.

Question 28 / 80 Stakeholders should by default be invited to the Sprint Retrospective.

:​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 29 / 80 Product Backlog items may include test descriptions, which must be fulfilled for an item to be “Done”.

:​TRUE
​FALSE

Question 30 / 80 Which of the following statements are correct about un-“Done” items in the Sprint Backlog in the end of the Sprint? (Choose two answers.)

​The Sprint will be extended until the item is done
​It will be demonstrated to the stakeholders but pointed out that it’s not complete yet
:​It won’t be demonstrated at the Sprint Review meeting
:​It will be moved back to the Product Backlog
​It has to be completed in the next Sprint

Question 31 / 80 Which event does a Sprint begin with?

​Retrospective
:​Sprint Planning
Daily Scrum
​Release Planning

Question 32 / 80 What is the appropriate action for a Development Team to take, if it does not understand a functional requirement?

​Complete as much as possible and add the remaining work as a new Product Backlog item.
​Request a specialist to be added to the Development Team.
:​Work with the Product Owner to clarify the item and take decisions together.
Postpone the item to a later Sprint.

Question 33 / 80 What activities are performed by the Product Owner during Sprint 0?

:​There is no such thing as Sprint zero.
​Prepare the Product Backlog for the next few Sprints.
​Communicate with the customer and understand the requirements.
​Prepare the Product Backlog for the whole project.

Question 34 / 80 The Product Owner and Scrum Master may not be part of the Development Team.

​TRUE
:​FALSE

Question 35 / 80 An increase in velocity is equal to an increase in value delivered.

​TRUE
!!​FALSE

Question 36 / 80 The Sprint Planning provides multiple outputs. Which of the following in an output that provides the Development Team with a direction for the Sprint?

​The task list
:​The Sprint Goal
​The Sprint Burndown chart
​The Sprint Backlog

Question 37 / 80 Which of the following statements are correct about the Sprint Retrospective? (Choose two answers.)

​It takes place before the Sprint Review.
​It’s the only time improvement are planned for the project.
​It provides an opportunity for inspection and adaptation.
:​It’s at most three hours long for a one-month Sprint, for shorter Sprints this is usually less.
​The Product Owner doesn’t have to be at the meeting.

Question 38 / 80 Which of the following describes the activities of a Product Owner during Sprint 0?

​Creating User Stories based on the requirements.
:In Scrum, there is no Sprint 0.
Making sure enough for the upcoming three Sprints exists.
Drafting the timeline for the project.

Question 39 / 80 Which two statements are correct during the Sprint?

​The Sprint Goal emerges throughout the Sprint.
​The Development Team focuses on finishing all Sprint Backlog items.
:​The scope may be re-negotiated as more is learned.
!!​The scope may be clarified as more is learned.

Question 40 / 80 Who is responsible for updating the Sprint Backlog?

:​The Development Team
​The Scrum Master
​The Scrum Team
​The Product Owner

Question 41 / 80 The Product Owner is using burn-up charts instead of burn-down charts. What would be your response as the Scrum Master?

​Burn-up charts are used in traditional methods, and should be replaced by burn-down charts.
:​There’s nothing wrong with it.

Question 42 / 80 The Product Owner doesn’t spend enough time on the project. Which of the following options is the best thing for the Scrum Master to do about this?

​Send the Product Owner to a training
​Nominate a proxy Product Owner
:​Coach the Product Owner why it’s important for them to spend enough time on the project
​Inform the Product Owner’s functional manager

Question 43 / 80 Which of the following is the most appropriate statement about what cross-functionality in a Development Team means?

:​Deliver a potentially shippable, "Done" product Increment.
Delivering the project on-budget, in-scope and within the prescribed time.

Question Deliver a testable pre-Increment that can be handed over to the QA/Testing department.
Question 44 / 80 When multiple Scrum Teams work on the same product, each team should have a separate Product Owner.

:​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 45 / 80 Which of the following is not a role recognized by Scrum?

​Product Owner
:​Project manager
​Scrum Master
​Development Team

Question 46 / 80 What does the trendline in a release burndown chart indicate?

​The evolution of the return of investment on the project.
When all the work in the Product Backlog will likely be finished, allowing the Scrum Team to move to the next Sprint Backlog.
:​When the remaining work for the release is projected to be completed if there are no significant changes.

Question 47 / 80 Who is responsible for the proper understanding of Product Backlog items?

​The Development Team.
​The Business Analyst.
:​The Product Owner.
​The Scrum Master.

Question 48 / 80 How do changes in the end users’ environments affect the Product Backlog?

They usually have no effect. If the changes are extreme, the project should be cancelled and a new one started with a new Product Backlog.
They lead to the Product Backlog becoming obsolete and being replaced by a new one.
:​It evolves to reflect the changes.

Question 49 / 80 A self-organizing Development Team is free to not hold Daily Scrums.

​TRUE
:​FALSE

Question 50 / 80 Which of the following two statements are accurate about technical debt? (Choose two answers.)

:​It creates false assumptions about the current state of the system, lowering transparency.
:Having technical debt introduces additional risk to the product.
​The Development Team should never start working on a new item unless they remove all existing technical debt.

Question 51 / 80 What type of process control is at the basis of Scrum?

Traditional
Agile
Rational
:​Empirical

Question 52 / 80 What is the Scrum Master’s responsibility during a Sprint Retrospective?

​Selecting the most important action items.
:​Participating as a member of the Scrum Team and facilitating as requested or needed.
​Recording the meeting minutes.
​Ensuring conflict is avoided.

Question 53 / 80 When a project is riskier, Sprints should be longer.

:​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 54 / 80 Which of the following statements does NOT describe an advantage provided by using Scrum?

​It makes projects adaptable and open to incorporating change.
​It leads to greater levels of motivation among employees.
!!​It ensures that all the benefits are delivered at the end of the project.
​It minimizes non-essential work and leads to higher efficiency levels.

Question 55 / 80 A Product Owner is concerned about the quality level provided by the Development Team’s definition of “Done”. What is the best approach for the Product Owner to take?

​Adjust the definition of "Done" immediately.
​Ask the company QA department to investigate the issue
​Adjust the definition of "Done" at the end of the Sprint
:​Point it out in the next Sprint Retrospective and work with the Development Team towards a shared understanding of quality.

Question 56 / 80 Which of the following topics should be addressed in the Sprint Retrospective?

​Needed skills or knowledge.
​The definition of "Done".
:All provided answers are correct.
​The way the team members interact.
​The process that the Scrum Team does the Scrum events.

Question 57 / 80 How are architecture and infrastructure handled in Scrum?

​They are dovered in Sprint 0.
:​They are added to the Product Backlog and implemented along with functional development.
​They are discussed and planned during Sprint spikes.

Question 58 / 80 What event triggers the beginning of a new Sprint?

The conclusion of the Sprint Planning.
The beginning of a new work week.
The Sprint kick-off meeting held by the Product Owner
:The expiration of the time-box of the previous Sprint.

Question 59 / 80 Scrum suggests that the Product Backlog refinement should not take more than 10% of the Product Owner’s time.

:​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 60 / 80 Which statement is correct about five Scrum Teams working on one product?

​There should be five Product Backlogs and one Product Owner to manage them.
:​The product has one Product Backlog and one Product Owner.
​There should be five Product Owners, one for each Scrum Team.
​There should be five Product Backlogs and five Product Owners.

Question 61 / 80 Only the Scrum Team may attend the Sprint Planning.

!!​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 62 / 80 Which of the following statements is most appropriate regarding how often membership in the Development Team should change?

:Whenever needed, taking into account a temporary decrease in productivity.
Whenever needed.
Never.
Frequently, as it facilitates knowledge transfer.

Question 63 / 80 Which of the following is the correct time-box for the Sprint Planning of a two week Sprint?

3 hours
6 hours
4 hours
:8 hours

Question 64 / 80 Which of the following is the least appropriate behavior of a Scrum Master?

Team and coach the Development Team and the Product Owner about effective communication.
Monitor the quality of communication between Product Owner and Development Team and take actions if necessary.
​Suggest effective communication tools and techniques to the Product Owner
:Act as a communication-proxy between Product Owner and Development Team.

Question 65 / 80 Which of the following artifacts contains a plan for realizing the Sprint Goal?

:​Sprint Backlog
​Product Vision
​None of the provided answers is correct.
​Product Backlog
​Gantt Chart

Question 66 / 80 When multiple Scrum teams are working on the same product, they are responsible for delivering one integrated, “Done” Increment.

:​TRUE
​FALSE

Question 67 / 80 Which of the following is the correct time-box for the Sprint Review?

At least two hours.
As long as it takes.
​2 hours for a one month Sprint.
:​4 hours for a one month Sprint.

Question 68 / 80 The purpose of the Daily Scrum is for the Development Team to provide an update to the Product Owner.

:​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 69 / 80 Which of the following statements is true regarding the duration of a Sprint?

!!​No more than one month.
!!​Short enough to be able to synchronize the development work with other business events.
!!​Short enough to keep the business risk acceptable to the Product Owner.
!!​All of these answers are correct.

Question 70 / 80 What it the appropriate action for a Development Team to take if it realizes it has selected too much during the Sprint?

:​Work with the Product Owner to renegotiate the scope as soon as possible.
Temporarily add new members to the team.
​Continue working and update the Product Owner at the Sprint Review.
Temporarily adjust the definition of "Done", allowing all items to be finished.

Question 71 / 80 Which of the following statements is true about transparency?

​The whole process must be visible to stakeholders.
!!​Significant aspects of the process must be visible to those responsible for the outcome.
​The whole process must be visible to everyone.
​The process must be visible, and understood by stakeholders.

Question 72 / 80 Which of the following is not a responsibility of members of the Development Team?

:​Breaking down the epics in the Product Backlog into stories
Inspecting and adapting their own processes
​Volunteering for tasks
Self-organizing their work

Question 73 / 80 What part does the Product Owner play in the creation of the Sprint Goal?

The Product Owner creates the Sprint Goal in collaboration with the stakeholders.
​The Product Owner defines the Sprint Goal.
The creation of the Sprint Goal is left to the Development Team, as they are self-organizing. The Product Owner plays no role in this process.
!!The Product Owner provides the business objective for the Sprint and an ordered Product backlog. ​The Product Owner and the Development Team collaborate to form the Sprint Goal. 

Question 74 / 80 A new Sprint starts immediately after the previous Sprint.

​FALSE
:​TRUE

Question 75 / 80 During the Sprint Planning, the Scrum Team discovers that the Product Backlog is not properly refined. What is the time-box for the Sprint Planning is such a case?

​4 hours
​6 hours
​As much as needed
​12 hours
:​8 hours

Question 76 / 80 Which of the following is not time-boxed according to the Scrum Guide?

​Sprint Planning
:Product Backlog refinement
Sprint Retrospective
​Sprint Review
​Daily Scrum

Question 77 / 80 What does the vertical axis of a burn-down chart represent?

​The progress
​The technical debt
:​The amount of remaining work
​The capacity of the team

Question 78 / 80 The self-organization of the Development Team includes the possiblility to remove Scrum Events from their Sprints.

:​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 79 / 80 The Product Owner is responsible for the definition of “Done”.

:​FALSE
​TRUE

Question 80 / 80 Which of the following descibes the optimal length of a Sprint?

:​Short enough to minimize risk, long enough to deliver at least one piece of improved outcome.
​Two weeks
​One week
​One month
