Question 1 The self-organization of the Development Team includes the possiblility to remove Scrum Events from their Sprints.

:FALSE
TRUE

Question 2 The Product Owner and Scrum Master may not be part of the Development Team.

:FALSE
TRUE

Question 3 A self-organizing Development Team is free to not hold Daily Scrums.

TRUE
:FALSE

Question 4 The Scrum Team gathers stakeholder feedback exclusively during the Sprint Review.

:FALSE
TRUE

Question 5 When multiple Scrum teams are working on the same product, they are responsible for delivering one integrated, “Done” Increment.

FALSE
:TRUE

Question 6 What is the maximum amount of time permitted between the end of a Sprint and the beginning of the next one?

:None. A new Sprint starts immediately following the conclusion of the previous Sprint.
Enough time for the last Increment to finish testing.
All provided answers are correct.
Enough time for the Product Owner to prepare the Product Backlog for Sprint Planning.
Maximum of 1 day for Sprints that are time-boxed to 2 weeks.

Question 7 How much work is necessary to turn a Sprint Backlog item to done.

All the work that has been defined during Sprint Planning.
At least requirement gathering, design, implementation, and testing.
:All the work needed to deliver a "Done" Increment.

Question 8 When multiple Scrum Teams work on the same product, each team should have a separate Product Owner.

TRUE
FALSE

Question 9 When multiple teams work on the same product, who is responsible for the integration of work into one Increment?

:The Development Teams.
The Product Owner
The Scrum Master
The Integration Engineers.

Question 10 The Product Owner is using burn-up charts instead of burn-down charts. What would be your response as the Scrum Master?

:There’s nothing wrong with it.
Burn-up charts are used in traditional methods, and should be replaced by burn-down charts.

Question 11 Which of the following are common outcomes of Daily Scrums? (Choose two answers.)

:The members of the Development Team are committed on the next steps towards the Sprint Goal.
:Impediments have been identified for the Scrum Master to address.
The Product Owner is updated about the progress.

Question 12 A new Sprint starts immediately after the previous Sprint.

:TRUE
FALSE

Question 13 When multiple Scrum Teams work on the same product, they pull work from the same Product Backlog.

FALSE
:TRUE

Question 14 Which of the following topics should be addressed in the Sprint Retrospective?

Needed skills or knowledge.
The process that the Scrum Team does the Scrum events.
:All provided answers are correct.
The way the team members interact.
The definition of "Done".

Question 15 Which of the following statements best describes iterative development?

It refers to developing the final project deliverables in one product development cycle.
:It refers to using more than one product development cycle to develop the final project deliverables through the learning from the previous development cycles.
It refers to developing project outputs through detailed upfront planning with emphasis on fixing scope, quality and other project aspects.
It refers to developing project deliverables using automated processes.

Question 16 What is the Scrum Master’s responsibility during a Sprint Retrospective?

Recording the meeting minutes.
:Participating as a member of the Scrum Team and facilitating as requested or needed.
Selecting the most important action items.
Ensuring conflict is avoided.

Question 17 How do changes in the end users’ environments affect the Product Backlog?

They usually have no effect. If the changes are extreme, the project should be cancelled and a new one started with a new Product Backlog.
They lead to the Product Backlog becoming obsolete and being replaced by a new one.
:It evolves to reflect the changes.

Question 18 Which of the following two statements are accurate about technical debt? (Choose two answers.)

The Development Team should never start working on a new item unless they remove all existing technical debt.
:It creates false assumptions about the current state of the system, lowering transparency.
:Having technical debt introduces additional risk to the product.

Question 19 What does the vertical axis of a burn-down chart represent?

The progress
The technical debt
The capacity of the team
:The amount of remaining work

Question 20 An increase in velocity is equal to an increase in value delivered.

TRUE
:FALSE

Question 21 Which of the following artifacts contains a plan for realizing the Sprint Goal?

Product Backlog
Gantt Chart
None of the provided answers is correct.
:Sprint Backlog
Product Vision

Question 22 A new Product Owner is hired to work on an existing product that has ongoing for five Sprints. They are unsure about all of the responsibilities of a Product Owner. Which of these Product Owner activities are defined in Scrum?

Ensuring work is completed within scope and time.
Describing features as Use Cases.
:Interacting with stakeholders and ensuring that the most valuable functionality is is always produced first.
Writing User Stories.

Question 23 Which of the following statements is most appropriate regarding how often membership in the Development Team should change?

Whenever needed.
:Whenever needed, taking into account a temporary decrease in productivity.
Frequently, as it facilitates knowledge transfer.
Never.

Question 24 What it the appropriate action for a Development Team to take if it realizes it has selected too much during the Sprint?

Continue working and update the Product Owner at the Sprint Review.
Temporarily adjust the definition of "Done", allowing all items to be finished.
Temporarily add new members to the team.
:Work with the Product Owner to renegotiate the scope as soon as possible.

Question 25 Only the Scrum Team may attend the Sprint Planning.

TRUE
:FALSE

Question 26 What activities are performed by the Product Owner during Sprint 0?

:There is no such thing as Sprint zero.
Prepare the Product Backlog for the whole project.
Communicate with the customer and understand the requirements.
Prepare the Product Backlog for the next few Sprints.

Question 27 Which of the following is not a responsibility of members of the Development Team?

Self-organizing their work
Inspecting and adapting their own processes
:Breaking down the epics in the Product Backlog into stories
Volunteering for tasks

Question 28 Who is responsible for estimating the Product Backlog items?

The Product Owner.
The Technical Architect.
:The Development Team.
The Scrum Master.

Question 29 The Product Owner doesn’t spend enough time on the project. Which of the following options is the best thing for the Scrum Master to do about this?

Nominate a proxy Product Owner
Send the Product Owner to a training
:Coach the Product Owner why it’s important for them to spend enough time on the project
Inform the Product Owner’s functional manager

Question 30 During the Sprint Planning, the Scrum Team discovers that the Product Backlog is not properly refined. What is the time-box for the Sprint Planning is such a case?


4 hours
6 hours
12 hours As much as needed
:8 hours

Question 31 A Product Owner is concerned about the quality level provided by the Development Team’s definition of “Done”. What is the best approach for the Product Owner to take?

Adjust the definition of "Done" immediately.
Adjust the definition of "Done" at the end of the Sprint
Ask the company QA department to investigate the issue
:Point it out in the next Sprint Retrospective and work with the Development Team towards a shared understanding of quality.

Question 32 Who is responsible for updating the Sprint Backlog?

:The Development Team
The Product Owner
The Scrum Master
The Scrum Team

Question 33 Which of the following is the correct time-box for the Sprint Review?

At least two hours.
2 hours for a one month Sprint.
:4 hours for a one month Sprint.
As long as it takes.

Question 34 What is the appropriate action for a Development Team to take, if it does not understand a functional requirement?

Complete as much as possible and add the remaining work as a new Product Backlog item.
Work with the Product Owner to clarify the item and take decisions together.
Request a specialist to be added to the Development Team.
Postpone the item to a later Sprint.

Question 35 Which of the following descibes the optimal length of a Sprint?

One week
One month
:Short enough to minimize risk, long enough to deliver at least one piece of improved outcome.
Two weeks

Question 36 Which of the following is not a role recognized by Scrum?

Scrum Master
:Project manager
Product Owner
Development Team

Question 37 Who’s responsible for Gantt Charts in Scrum?

No one
The Development Team
The Scrum Master
The project manager

Question 38 What is the responsibility of the Development Team during Sprint 1?

:Deliver a potentially shippable Increment.
Create a roadmap for the upcoming Sprints.
Define the architecture of the project.

Question 39 During the Sprint, the Development Team realizes it cannot deliver all items in the Sprint Backlog. Who is responsible for readjusting the scope of the Sprint Backlog?

:The Development Team and the Product Owner
The Product Owner
The Scrum Master
The Scrum Team
The Development Team

Question 40 Which of the following statements are correct about un-“Done” items in the Sprint Backlog in the end of the Sprint? (Choose two answers.)

:It won’t be demonstrated at the Sprint Review meeting
The Sprint will be extended until the item is done
:It will be moved back to the Product Backlog
It will be demonstrated to the stakeholders but pointed out that it’s not complete yet
It has to be completed in the next Sprint

Question 41 Who is responsible for the proper understanding of Product Backlog items?

The Development Team.
:The Product Owner.
The Scrum Master.
The Business Analyst.

Question 42 Product Backlog items may include test descriptions, which must be fulfilled for an item to be “Done”.

:TRUE
FALSE

Question 43 Burn-down charts are a mandatory practice for Scrum Teams.

:FALSE
TRUE

Question 44 Which of the following statements are correct about the Sprint Retrospective? (Choose two answers.)

It’s the only time improvement are planned for the project.
It takes place before the Sprint Review.
:It provides an opportunity for inspection and adaptation.
The Product Owner doesn’t have to be at the meeting.
:It’s at most three hours long for a one-month Sprint, for shorter Sprints this is usually less.

Question 45 Agility is the ability for organizations to respond to change rapidly.

FALSE
:TRUE

Question 46 Which of the following statements is true about transparency?

The whole process must be visible to stakeholders.
:Significant aspects of the process must be visible to those responsible for the outcome.
The process must be visible, and understood by stakeholders.
The whole process must be visible to everyone.

Question 47 What part does the Product Owner play in the creation of the Sprint Goal?

The Product Owner creates the Sprint Goal in collaboration with the stakeholders.
:The Product Owner provides the business objective for the Sprint and an ordered Product backlog. The Product Owner and the Development Team collaborate to form the Sprint Goal. 
The Product Owner defines the Sprint Goal.
The creation of the Sprint Goal is left to the Development Team, as they are self-organizing. The Product Owner plays no role in this process.

Question 48 The Product Owner is responsible for the definition of “Done”.

TRUE
:FALSE

Question 49 What does the trendline in a release burndown chart indicate?

The evolution of the return of investment on the project.
:When the remaining work for the release is projected to be completed if there are no significant changes.
When all the work in the Product Backlog will likely be finished, allowing the Scrum Team to move to the next Sprint Backlog.

Question 50 A Product Owner may transfer some of their accountabiliy to members of the Development Team.

:FALSE
TRUE

Question 51 What event triggers the beginning of a new Sprint?

:The expiration of the time-box of the previous Sprint.
The Sprint kick-off meeting held by the Product Owner
The beginning of a new work week.
The conclusion of the Sprint Planning.

Question 52 What is the purpose of the Sprint Review?

:It is an opportunity for the Scrum Team and key stakeholders inspect the Increment produced in the Sprint and adapt the Product Backlog accordingly.
It provides an opportunity for the Development Team to find ways to incrementally improve their velocity.
It is an activity for the Development Team to demonstrate their work to the Product Owner.

Question 53 Which of the following statements does NOT describe an advantage provided by using Scrum?

It minimizes non-essential work and leads to higher efficiency levels.
It leads to greater levels of motivation among employees.
It makes projects adaptable and open to incorporating change.
:It ensures that all the benefits are delivered at the end of the project.

Question 54 When a project is riskier, Sprints should be longer.

TRUE
:FALSE

Question 55 Which event does a Sprint begin with?

Retrospective
Release Planning
Daily Scrum
:Sprint Planning

Question 56 A Scrum Master observes problems in the collaboration of the Product Owner with the Development Team. What action is appropriate?

Nominate a proxy Product Owner.
:Coach the Product Owner.
Act as the go-between between Product Owner and Development Team.

Question 57 Which role in Scrum acts as a facilitator and coach?

Scrum Team
Team Leader
:Scrum Master
Product Owner

Question 58 Which of the following statement is NOT correct about Scrum?

It is difficult to master.
It is based on empiricism.
It is a framework used to address complex products.
:It deals only with static requirements.

Question 59 Which of the following statements are NOT correct about time-boxing. (Choose two answers.)

The Daily Scrum is time-boxed to 15 minutes; the Sprint Review is time-boxed to 4 hours for a one month Sprint; a Sprint is time-boxed to one month.
:The Sprint Retrospective is time-boxed to 4 hours for a one month Sprint; Daily Scrum is time-boxed to 15 minutes; a Sprint is time-boxed to 1 to 6 weeks.
A Sprint is time-boxed to a maximum of one month; Sprint Planning is time-boxed to 8 hours for a one month Sprint; the Daily Scrum is time-boxed to 15 minutes.
:The Sprint Review is time-boxed to 6 hours for a one month Sprint; the Sprint Retrospective is time-boxed to 8 hours for a one month Sprint; the Sprint Planning is time-boxed to 8 hours for a one week Sprint.

Question 60 Which of the following describes the activities of a Product Owner during Sprint 0?

Making sure enough for the upcoming three Sprints exists.
Creating User Stories based on the requirements.
Drafting the timeline for the project.
:In Scrum, there is no Sprint 0.

Question 61 Which of the following is the most appropriate statement about what cross-functionality in a Development Team means?

Delivering the project on-budget, in-scope and within the prescribed time.
Deliver a testable pre-Increment that can be handed over to the QA/Testing department.
:Deliver a potentially shippable, "Done" product Increment.

Question 62 Which statement is correct about five Scrum Teams working on one product?

There should be five Product Backlogs and five Product Owners.
:The product has one Product Backlog and one Product Owner.
There should be five Product Owners, one for each Scrum Team.
There should be five Product Backlogs and one Product Owner to manage them.

Question 63 How are architecture and infrastructure handled in Scrum?

They are discussed and planned during Sprint spikes.
:They are added to the Product Backlog and implemented along with functional development.
They are dovered in Sprint 0.

Question 64 Which of the following is the event most appropriate to inspect and possibly adapt the definition of “Done”?

Sprint Planning
:Sprint Retrospective
Daily Scrum
Between two Sprints

Question 65 Which of the following is the correct time-box for the Sprint Planning of a two week Sprint?

:8 hours
6 hours
3 hours
4 hours

Question 66 Which of the following is the least appropriate behavior of a Scrum Master?

Suggest effective communication tools and techniques to the Product Owner
Team and coach the Development Team and the Product Owner about effective communication.
:Act as a communication-proxy between Product Owner and Development Team.
Monitor the quality of communication between Product Owner and Development Team and take actions if necessary.

Question 67 What happens to “Done” Product Backlog items when a Sprint is cancelled?

They should be moved to the next Sprint Backlog.
:They will be reviewed, and if they are potentially releasable, the Product Owner typically accepts them.
They should be moved back to the Product Backlog, and would be taken care of in the future Sprints

Question 68 Stakeholders should by default be invited to the Sprint Retrospective.

TRUE
:FALSE

Question 69 Which of the following is not time-boxed according to the Scrum Guide?

:Product Backlog refinement
Sprint Retrospective
Sprint Planning
Daily Scrum
Sprint Review

Question 70 Who assigns tasks to individual members of the Development Team?

The project manager.
The Product Owner.
The Scrum Master.
:The members of the Development Team themselves.

Question 71 During the Sprint Planning, the Development Team commits to delivering the Product Backlog items in the Sprint Backlog.

:FALSE
TRUE

Question 72 Which of the following statements is true regarding the duration of a Sprint?

No more than one month.
Short enough to be able to synchronize the development work with other business events.
!!All of these answers are correct.
Short enough to keep the business risk acceptable to the Product Owner.

Question 73 Which two statements are correct during the Sprint?

:The scope may be clarified as more is learned.
:The scope may be re-negotiated as more is learned.
The Development Team focuses on finishing all Sprint Backlog items.
The Sprint Goal emerges throughout the Sprint.

Question 74 What activities are performed by the Product Owner in-between Sprints?

Updating stakeholders on project progress.
:There is no time between Sprints.
Product Backlog refinement.
Participate as a team member at the Sprint Retrospective.

Question 75 The purpose of the Daily Scrum is for the Development Team to provide an update to the Product Owner.

:FALSE
TRUE

Question 76 What type of process control is at the basis of Scrum?

Rational
Agile
Traditional
:Empirical

Question 77 What is the role of management towards the Scrum Team?

Decide how to divide the Development Team when it exceeds the Scrum limit.
Track individual performance in order to maintain a high performance team structure.
Assign tasks to individual members when urgent requests are received.
:Give them the environment and support they need and trust them to get the job done.

Question 78 Which of the following describes a valid service from the Scrum Master to the Product Owner? (Choose the best answer.)

Act as a proxy when the Product Owner is not available to the team.
:Helping the Product Owner find better techniques for Product Backlog management.
Act as the middleman between the Product Owner and the Development Team, as requested or required.

Question 79 The Sprint Planning provides multiple outputs. Which of the following in an output that provides the Development Team with a direction for the Sprint?

The Sprint Backlog
:The Sprint Goal
The Sprint Burndown chart
The task list

Question 80 Scrum suggests that the Product Backlog refinement should not take more than 10% of the Product Owner’s time.

:FALSE
TRUE
