Question 1 of 30 The Developers should not be interrupted during the Sprint and the Sprint Goal should remain intact. These are conditions that foster creativity, quality and productivity.

(Which one the following answers is FALSE?)
A.  The Developers may work with the Product Owner to add or remove work if they find themselves with more or less capacity than expected.
B.  The Sprint Backlog is fully formulated in the Sprint Planning event and does not change during the Sprint.
!!C.  As a decomposition of the selected Product Backlog items, the Sprint Backlog changes and may grow as the work emerges.
D.  The Product Owner can help clarify or optimize the Sprint when asked by the Developers.
Feedback The Sprint Backlog makes visible all of the work that the Developers identify as necessary to meet the Sprint Goal. The Developers modify the Sprint Backlog throughout the Sprint, and the Sprint Backlog emerges during the Sprint.
Question 2 of 30 What does it mean to say that an event has a timebox?

(choose the best answer)
A.  The event must happen by a given time.
B.  The event must happen at a set time.
C.  The event must take at least a minimum amount of time.
:D.  The event can take no more than a maximum amount of time.
Feedback Timeboxed events are events that have a maximum duration.
Question 3 of 30 When does the next Sprint begin?

(choose the best answer)
A.  Immediately following the next Sprint Planning.
:B.  Immediately after the conclusion of the previous Sprint.
C.  When the Product Owner is ready.
D.  Next Monday.
Feedback A new Sprint starts immediately after the conclusion of the previous Sprint.
Question 4 of 30 The timebox for a Daily Scrum is?

(choose the best answer)
:A.  15 minutes.
B.  15 minutes for a 4-week sprint. For shorter Sprints it is usually shorter.
C.  Two minutes per person.
D.  4 hours.
E.  The same time of day every day.
Feedback The Daily Scrum is a 15-minute event for the Developers of the Scrum Team. The Scrum Master serves the Scrum Team by ensuring that all Scrum events take place and are positive, productive, and kept within the timebox.
Question 5 of 30 During a Sprint, a Developer determines that the Scrum Team will not be able to complete the items in their forecast. Who should be present to review and adjust the Product Backlog items selected?

(choose the best answer)
A.  The Product Owner and all stakeholders.
B.  The Scrum Master, the project manager, and the Developers
:C.  The Product Owner and the Developers.
D.  The Developers.
Feedback During the Sprint, scope may be clarified and re-negotiated between the Product Owner and the Developers as more is learned. It is important to be transparent when challenges arise since ultimately the entire Scrum Team is accountable for creating a valuable, useful Increment.
Question 6 of 30 True or False: The Scrum Team must choose at least one high priority process improvement item, identified during the Sprint Retrospective, and place it in the Sprint Backlog.
True
:False
Feedback An earlier version of the Scrum Guide prescribed the practice of placing one improvement in the Sprint Backlog. This was removed in the 2020 update to the Scrum Guide because it was felt to be too prescriptive. However, if this practice provides value to you then you should adopt it. It is simply not prescribed anymore, but can still be valuable.
Question 7 of 30 Which statement best describes a Product Owner's responsibility?

(choose the best answer)
A.  Keep stakeholders from distracting the Developers.
:B.  Optimizing the value of the work the Scrum Team does.
C.  Managing the project and ensuring that the work meets the commitments to the stakeholders.
D.  Directing the Developers.
Feedback The Product Owner is accountable for maximizing the value of the product and the work of the Scrum Team.
Question 8 of 30 Which of the following are examples of a Scrum Team practicing Scrum poorly or not exhibiting traits of a self-managing Scrum Team?

(choose the best three answers)
A.  The Developers have all the skills they need to create a valuable, useful Increment.
:B.  Stakeholders attend the Daily Scrum to check on the Scrum Team’s progress.
C.  The Developers create their own Sprint Backlog, reflecting all work that is required to meet the Definition of Done.
D.  The Developers are collaboratively selecting their own work during the Sprint.
E.  The Developers invite external stakeholders to the Sprint Planning to ask them how to turn a Product Backlog item into an Increment via a complete and detailed Sprint Backlog.
F.  The Developers are working within the boundaries of their organizations functional description and nicely handing off work from analyst to developer to tester to integration.
You did not select all available correct options.
Feedback The Daily Scrum is for the Developers. It should not be used by external stakeholders to check progress.
During Sprint Planning the Scrum Team should be crafting the Sprint Goal based on the set of Product Backlog items selected for the Sprint. The Developers identify the necessary work to meet the Sprint Goal.
Scrum Team members do not have titles, and no sub-teams; such as testing, architecture, or operations are recognized. Accountability belongs with the Scrum Team as a whole, regardless of whether team members have specialized skills.
Question 9 of 30 Which statement best describes the Sprint Review?

(choose the best answer)
A.  It is a demo at the end of the Sprint for everyone in the organization to check on the work done.
B.  It is a mechanism to control Developer activity during a Sprint.
:C.  It is when the Scrum Team and stakeholders inspect the outcome of a Sprint and figure out what to do next.
Feedback Every event in Scrum, besides the Sprint, which is a container for the other events, is an opportunity to Inspect and Adapt.
Question 10 of 30 Who is on the Scrum Team?

(choose the best three answers)
:A.  The Scrum Master.
B.  Project Manager.
:C.  The Product Owner.
:D.  Developers.
Feedback The Scrum Team consists of the Scrum Master, the Product Owner and Developers. The Scrum Team is a cohesive unit of professionals focused on one objective at a time, the Product Goal.
Question 11 of 30 The Product Backlog is ordered by:

(choose the best answer)
A.  Items are randomly arranged.
:B.  Whatever is deemed most appropriate by the Product Owner.
C.  Least valuable items at the top to most valuable at the bottom.
D.  Risk, where safer items are at the top, and riskier items are at the bottom.
E.  Size, where small items are at the top and large items are at the bottom.
Feedback The Product Owner is accountable for effective Product Backlog management. The Product Backlog is an emergent, ordered list of what is needed to improve the product. It is the single source of work undertaken by the Scrum Team.
Question 12 of 30 A Scrum Team consists of the following:

(choose the best three answers)
A.  Users
:B.  Product Owner
C.  Customers
:D.  Developers
:E.  Scrum Master
Feedback The Scrum Team consists of one Scrum Master, one Product Owner, and Developers.
Question 13 of 30 Who is responsible for managing the progress of work during a Sprint?

(choose the best answer)
A.  The Scrum Master.
B.  The most junior member of the team.
C.  The Product Owner.
:D.  The Developers.
Feedback The Developers use the Daily Scrum to inspect progress toward the Sprint Goal and to inspect how progress is trending toward completing the work in the Sprint Backlog.
Question 14 of 30 The length of a Sprint should be:

(choose the best answer)
A.  Short enough to keep the business risk acceptable to the Product Owner.
B.  Short enough to be able to synchronize the development work with other business events.
C.  One month or less.
:D.  All of the above.
Feedback All of these choices are appropriate considerations in determining the length of a Sprint.
Question 15 of 30 Why is the Daily Scrum held at the same time and same place?

(choose the best answer)
A.  The place can be named.
B.  Rooms are hard to book and this lets it be booked in advance.
:C.  The consistency reduces complexity.
D.  The Product Owner demands it.
Feedback The Daily Scrum is held at the same time and place each day to reduce complexity.
Question 16 of 30 When does a Developer become the sole owner of an item on the Sprint Backlog?

(choose the best answer)
A.  Whenever a team member can accommodate more work.
B.  At the Sprint Planning event.
:C.  Never. All Sprint Backlog items are "owned" by the Developers on the Scrum Team.
D.  During the Daily Scrum.
Feedback The entire Scrum Team is accountable for creating a valuable, useful Increment every Sprint, and the set of Product Backlog items selected for the Sprint are collectively owned by the Developers. No individual Developer can claim ownership over an item as this would block communication and collaboration. The Sprint Backlog is updated by the Developers throughout the Sprint as more is learned.
Question 17 of 30 What is the main reason for the Scrum Master to be at the Daily Scrum?

(choose the best answer)
A.  To gather status and progress information to report to management.
B.  To write down any changes to the Sprint Backlog, including adding new items, and tracking progress on the burn-down.
:C.  They do not have to be there; they only need to ensure the Developers have a Daily Scrum.
D.  To make sure every team member answers the three questions.
Feedback The Scrum Master only ensures that all Scrum events take place and are positive, productive, and kept within the timebox.
Question 18 of 30 Who creates the Definition of Done?

(choose the best answer)
A.  The Scrum Team, in a collaborative effort where the result is the common denominator of all members' definitions.
B.  The Scrum Master since they are responsible for the productivity of the Developers.
C.  The Product Owner since they are responsible for the product's success.
:D.  If it is not an organizational standard, the Scrum Team must create a Definition of Done appropriate for the product.
Feedback If the Definition of Done for an Increment is part of the standards of the organization, all Scrum Teams must follow it as a minimum. If it is not an organizational standard, the Scrum Team must create a Definition of Done appropriate for the product.
Question 19 of 30 True or False: It is mandatory that the product Increment be released to production at the end of each Sprint.
True
:False
Feedback The product Increment should be usable and releasable at the end of every Sprint, but it does not have to be released.
Question 20 of 30 When does a Developer become accountable for the value of a Product Backlog item selected for the Sprint?

(choose the best answer)
A.  During the Daily Scrum.
:B.  Never. The entire Scrum Team is accountable for creating value every Sprint.
C.  Whenever a team member can accommodate more work.
D.  At the Sprint Planning Event.
Feedback All members of the Scrum Team share in the accountability for creating value every Sprint.
Question 21 of 30 What is the typical size for a Scrum Team?

(choose the best answer)
:A.  10 or fewer.
B.  Minimum of 7.
C.  7 plus or minus 2.
D.  9.
Feedback A Scrum Team is small enough to remain nimble and large enough to complete significant work within a Sprint, typically 10 or fewer people. Generally smaller teams communicate better and are more productive
Question 22 of 30 True or False: When multiple Scrum Teams work together on the same product, each team should maintain a separate Product Backlog.
True
:False
Feedback Products have one Product Backlog, regardless of how many Scrum Teams are used. Any other setup makes it difficult for the Developers to determine what they should work on.
Question 23 of 30 Which statement best describes Scrum?

(choose the best answer)
:A.  A framework for creating complex products in complex environments.
B.  A defined and predictive process that conforms to the principles of Scientific Management.
C.  A complete methodology that defines how to develop software.
D.  A cookbook that defines best practices for software development.
Feedback Scrum is a lightweight framework that helps people, teams and organizations generate value through adaptive solutions for complex problems.
Question 24 of 30 True or False: Scrum has a role called "project manager."
True
:False
Feedback A Scrum Team has a Scrum Master, a Product Owner and Developers. As a whole they have all controls needed.
Question 25 of 30 True or False: The purpose of a Sprint is to produce a valuable and useful Increment of working product.
:True
False
Feedback The heart of Scrum is a Sprint, a timebox of one month or less during which a done, useful, and valuable working product Increment is created.
Question 26 of 30 What are three incorrect, untrue, or misleading statements about Scrum?

(choose the best three answers)
:A.  Scrum is a methodology where you can pick and choose which parts of Scrum you think will work for your environment.
B.  Scrum is a framework for developing and sustaining complex products.
C.  Each component of Scrum serves a specific purpose and is essential to your ability to use Scrum to develop complex products.
:D.  Scrum is like traditional processes but with self-organization to replace Project Managers.
E.  Scrum is based on empirical process control theory.
:F.  Scrum is a framework that eliminates complexity.
Feedback Scrum is meant to be implemented as prescribed in the Scrum Guide. For example, the five events in the Scrum Guide are mandatory, each event has a specific purpose.
Scrum does not eliminate the complexity that is inherent in delivering a product in today’s world, instead it offers a framework for dealing with complexity. By regularly delivering Increments of value teams gain the ability to inspect and rapidly adapt based on the feedback received.
Project Managers are not simply replaced by self-managing teams. Scrum is a framework for optimizing decision making based on the knowledge and experience of the entire team.
Question 27 of 30 The timebox for the Sprint Planning event is?

(choose the best answer)
A.  4 hours.
B.  Monthly.
:C.  8 hours for a monthly Sprint. For shorter Sprints it is usually shorter.
D.  Whenever it is done.
Feedback Sprint Planning is timeboxed to a maximum of eight hours for a one-month Sprint. For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.
Question 28 of 30 When many Scrum Teams are working on a single product, what best describes the Definition of Done?

(choose the best answer)
:A.  All Scrum Teams must have a Definition of Done that makes their combined Increment valuable and useful.
B.  Each Scrum Team uses its own, but must make their definition clear to all other teams so the differences are known.
C.  It depends.
Feedback The Increment must be valuable and useful. This means that when many Scrum Teams are working on a single product, they are expected to adhere to a single Definition of Done for the Increment.
Question 29 of 30 The timebox for the Sprint Review is:

(choose the best answer)
A.  2 hours.
B.  1 day.
:C.  4 hours for a monthly Sprint. For shorter Sprints it is usually shorter.
D.  4 hours and longer as needed.
E.  As long as needed.
Feedback Sprint Review is a maximum four-hour timeboxed event for one-month Sprints. For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.
Question 30 of 30 What is the function or purpose of Management in Scrum?

(choose the best answer)
A.  Identify and remove people that are not working hard enough.
B.  Monitor the progress of the Developers on the Scrum Team.
:C.  Support the Product Owner with insights and information into high value product and system capabilities. Support the Scrum Master to encourage organizational change that fosters empiricism, self-management, bottom-up intelligence, and intelligent product delivery.
D.  Continually monitor staffing levels of the Scrum Team.
Feedback Management has no official role or accountability on a Scrum Team. However, management external to the Scrum Team is relevant in setting the vision and strategy to guide the overall direction of the organization.
