That's a good point. Look at it this way: if you have 18v power supply rails, a triangle wave at maximum output needs to swing from zero volts to +18 volts, then from +18v back to zero, then from zero to -18 volts, then from -18v back to zero. This means each triangle wave needs to slew 18*4 = 72 volts per complete cycle. Since human hearing has an upper limit of 20,000Hz, you need to slew a max of 72 volts * 20,000 triangle waves per second, or 1,440,000 slew volts per sec, which is 1.44 volts slewed per microsecond. I use triangle waves in this analysis because they slew at a constant rate so it makes the math simple. In reality, human hearing involves sine waves, and therefore the math needs to be adjusted for sine waves. If you convert from triangle waves to sine waves, the minimum slew rate required for 20,000Hz audio goes up to 2.1v per microsecond for 18v rails. For safety, round this number up to 2.5v per microsecond as the lowest slew rate needed to cover the entire audio spectrum. Of course, for higher rail voltages, increase this 2.5v number proportionally.

Some popular opamp slew rates:

5532: 9v per microsecond.

TL072: 13v per microsecond.

OPA627: 55v per microsecond. 

In other words, slew rate is not an issue for most chips because they already have slew rates greater than 2.5 volts per microsecond. The early 741 chips were the exception and should be avoided.

Because of this I often use WHAT SOUNDS BEST, rather than what has the best specs, especially when the specs become so microscopic that they are partially meaningless beyond a point. I am ALWAYS concerned about chip noise, THD, and the ability of the chip to drive low resistance values, the later being necessary to minimize resistor noise (Johnson noise, excess resistor noise, etc.). But in the end I want what will sound best under blind listening conditions. Sometimes specs just don't tell the whole story.

I call this....

10% SUBJECTIVE ENGINEERING mixed in with 90% OBJECTIVE ENGINEERING.

Before I am flamed by the usual grumpy old men for using the term subjective engineering, understand that OBJECTIVE ENGINEERING is what you design with. You can't substitute engineering ignorance for knowledge and expect things to work, so objective engineering is still king. But after all is said and done, you need to critically listen to the circuit and the parts used to see if they sound musically pleasing. Sometimes cheaper parts, or in some cases expensive parts, need to be substituted to tweak the sound. Or maybe no tweaking is needed at all.

Another important issue is slew rate distortion. You get slew rate distortion when the slew rate of the device can't keep up with the signal voltage changes and therefore distortion of the wave occurs. Slew rate distortion is like clipping distortion in the sense that it only occurs when the max slew rate is exceeded, but never happens as you approach the max slew rate without exceeding it. In other words, an extremely fast slew rate will not lower distortion compared to a slower slew rate, if the slower rate is already above the maximum slew rate needed to slew the voltage present.

One consideration is that many audio signals are square waves, which at first appear to need infinitely higher slew rates. But we only need to be concerned about square waves at lower audio frequencies because the human ear cannot detect the difference between a square wave and a sine wave at 20,000Hz for example. In fact, the limit of human hearing is always expressed as 20,000Hz of sine waves, which takes square waves into account by virtue of the naturally occurring fourier series deconstruction of square waves into sine waves which occurs in our hearing.

http://www.gearslutz.com/board/7959468-post25.html
